OSDOCS#10130: Doc support for ARM control plane with x86 compute nodes (#76246)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/multi-architecture-modify-machine-set-gcp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="multi-architecture-modify-machine-set-gcp_{context}"]
= Adding a multi-architecture compute machine set to your GCP cluster

> To configure a GCP cluster with multi-architecture compute machines, you must create a GCP ARM64 or AMD64 compute machine set. This adds ARM64 or AMD64 compute nodes to your cluster.

Reviewer: remove `This adds ARM64 or AMD64 compute nodes to your cluster.`

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="multi-architecture-modify-machine-set-gcp_{context}"]
= Adding a multi-architecture compute machine set to your GCP cluster

After creating a multi-architecture cluster, you can add nodes with different architectures. 

> Following are the examples of adding multi-architecture compute machines to a multi-architecture cluster:

Reviewer 2: If you [changed the same text previously](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76246/files#r1647832286), change it here also. Is this worth a snippet?

Author: You can add multi-architecture compute machines to a multi-architecture cluster in the following ways:

* Adding 64-bit x86 compute machines to a cluster that uses 64-bit ARM control plane machines and already includes 64-bit ARM compute machines. In this case, 64-bit x86 is considered the secondary architecture.
* Adding 64-bit ARM compute machines to a cluster that uses 64-bit x86 control plane machines and already includes 64-bit x86 compute machines. In this case, 64-bit ARM is considered the secondary architecture.

include::snippets/about-multiarch-tuning-operator.adoc[]

.Prerequisites

* You installed the {oc-first}.

> * You used the installation program to create an AMD64 or AMD64 single-architecture AWS cluster with the multi-architecture installer binary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You used the installation program to create an 64-bit x86 or 64-bit ARM single-architecture AWS cluster with the multi-architecture installer binary.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {oc-first}.

. Create a YAML file, and add the configuration to create a compute machine set to control the 64-bit ARM or 64-bit x86 compute nodes in your cluster.
+
--

> .Example `MachineSet` object for a GCP 64-bit ARM or 64-bit x86 compute node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `MachineSet` object for a GCP 64-bit ARM or 64-bit x86 compute node
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

$ projects/<project>/global/images/<image_name>
----
<4> Optional: Specify custom metadata in the form of a `key:value` pair. For example use cases, see the GCP documentation for link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/setting-custom-metadata[setting custom metadata].

> <5> Specify a 64-bit ARM supported machine type. For more information, see "Tested instance types for GCP on 64-bit ARM infrastructures".

Reviewer 3: Same issue, can we generalize and discuss about a secondary architecture AND higlighting that instance/machine type and RHCOS image should be for the same arch?

<6> Specify the name of the GCP project that you use for your cluster.
<7> Specify the region. For example, `us-central1`. Ensure that the zone you select offers 64-bit ARM machines.
--

. Create the compute machine set by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <file_name> <1>
----
<1> Replace `<file_name>` with the name of the YAML file with compute machine set configuration. For example: `gcp-arm64-machine-set-0.yaml`.

.Verification
. View the list of compute machine sets by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api
----

> The output must include the GCP 64-bit ARM machine set that you created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The output must include the machine set that you created.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

$ projects/<project>/global/images/<image_name>
----
<4> Optional: Specify custom metadata in the form of a `key:value` pair. For example use cases, see the GCP documentation for link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/setting-custom-metadata[setting custom metadata].

> <5> Specify a machine type that aligns with the CPU architecture of the chosen AMI. For more information, see "Tested instance types for GCP on 64-bit ARM infrastructures".

Reviewer 3: AMI is AWS-specific terminology.

```suggestion
<5> Specify a machine type that aligns with the CPU architecture of the chosen OS Image. For more information, see "Tested instance types for GCP on 64-bit ARM infrastructures".
```

ref: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/images

Author: We have only 1 instance of "AMI" in the GCP doc.
I guess this was directly suggested by @jeffdyoung 
Will let him also take a look.

Reviewer: yeah, I missed this. GCP shouldn't have "AMI"

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> <5> Specify a machine type that aligns with the CPU architecture of the chosen OS image. For more information, see "Tested instance types for GCP on 64-bit ARM infrastructures".

Reviewer 2: I agree with this one. There are only 6 instances of _OS image_ in the docs vs 43 of _operating system image_,

```suggestion
<5> Specify a machine type that aligns with the CPU architecture of the chosen operating system image. For more information, see "Tested instance types for GCP on 64-bit ARM infrastructures".
```
